---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 3: CSS Introduction"
date:   2021-10-7 18:16:57 -0700
---
# Introduction to CSS
We use a language called CSS to style webpages. CSS stands for "Cascading Style Sheets". This language works with HTML elements to describe the visual aspect of how the content should be displayed. The most convenient part about CSS is that it defines the layout of as many pages on the website as you need!  


## What is CC used for? 
CSS is used to style webpages. This includes colors, fonts, sizes, layouts, designs, etc. It is super efficient in defining decorative and aesthetic features that keep your website consistent through each page. It is also helpful to define each variation used for various devices such as a mobile phone or desktop computer.  

An HTML document is required to begin the setup of a CSS page. It does not need to be complex or elaborate to use CSS. A .css file will be necessary to apply the styles and layouts from the CSS file to the HTML pages. Without CSS, HTML code would be in plain text and considered as "unstyled".

Any HTML element, such as a paragraph, can be styled using CSS. For example, let's say we want every paragraph to have 12 size font in the color green. We will target an element selector, which is the paragraph element in this case, to give that element the desired decorative features. 

'    p {
      color: green;
      font-size: 12px;
    }'

This is a basic example of using CSS to style an HTML element. CSS can be extremely sophisticated in its use. You can utilize CSS to style items based on location, state, and class.  

## How does CSS work? 
CSS alerts the browser about how a document should be stylistically displayed to the user. Below is a breakdown about how CSS functions with HTML and a web browser: 

1. The HTML document is loaded onto a browser.
2. The HTML document is converted into a Document Object Model (DOM).
3. The CSS code is fetched by the browser to parse and sort the rules defined in the CSS file. 
4. The CSS style is attached to each appropriate HTML element/DOM 
5. After all of the rules have been applied, the browser will display the webpage as visually designed.  










