---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 1: HTML Structure"
date:   2021-09-22 18:16:57 -0700
---

# Structuring an HTML Document
To properly set up a document in HTML, there must be a structure defining every component of the page. This will make each page and section distinct consistent yet distinct in its form. 

## Beginning HTML Structure
In every HTML webpage, there are defining elements that tell the internet browser how the site will be operating. 

One of the most important tags that is used here is the DOCTYPE declaration. There should also be the opening html element to represent the root. This declaration will identify which version of HTML will be utilized in the document.

It is important for the user agent to know which language the page will be written in. This is where the "lang" attribute comes into play! It is good practice to include the language attribute so that screen readers, online translators, and dictionaries can identify the proper grammer and syntax usages. 

To describe the nature of the webpage, the meta tag is used to characterize the UTF-8 coding used as well as tags to help describe the site to search engines. The meta tag is also used to connect to external resrouces such as JavaScript and CSS files that allow the page to function as it was designed. This tag is also extremely beneficial for internet accessbility. 

### Body
After defining the usages of the HTML webpage, it is time to go into the body of the document. This includes all of the visual elements that will be displayed on the browser such as the header, navigation, body paragraphs, sidebars, footers, and images. 

To allow the webpage to function as efficiently and as smoothly as possible, it is important to section elements in the proper way. 

The header is the first section introduced to the body. It most commonly contains titles, topics, taglines, logos, etc in the content. This header is usally consistent across all of the pages on a website. It is important to have proper usage of headings all throughout the document. (H1, H2, H3, etc.) 

After defining all of the headings appropriately, the body paragraphs should be formatted with the preferred elements and tags. They can formatted with bold tags, italic tags, line breaks, and more.
 
 Images can be attached and adjusted to sit in a visually appropriate manner on the webpage. It is important to use alternative texts and descriptive tags to notify the user agents how to process this information.

Footers are also usually good practice to end the webpage in a suitable way. This may include contact information, geographical locations, and links to external sites like social media!

