---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 4: HTML & CSS"
date:   2021-10-12 18:16:57 -0700
---
# HTML & CSS 
We will go more in-depth on CSS aspects including attributes and selectors and how they function within an HTML page. 

## Attributes

### Class Attributes
Class and ID attributes follow all of the same syntax rules. Class attributes are added to any HTML elements in a document but must remain in the opening tag of the element.The values of these attributes are up to the discretion of the author. They can also be applied more than one time on a continuous page if desired.  
The values applied in the attributes are used as selectors in CSS to identify the style. This allows the class to be used frequently to apply the style in the overall layout. 

### ID Attributes
ID attributes are similar to class attributes in that their values are defined by the author as well. They are also used in any HTML element as needed.  
The different between class and ID attributes is that the ID can only be utilized one time on a page. This allows the ID to be exclusive to the element and the selector will match to the specific ID and element that it was applied to.  

## Selectors 

### ID Selector
CSS has selectors that will find and select the ID attributes of elements on an HTML document. Since ID attributes are exclusive and unique, the selector will detect the ID and give it the applied style. ID attributes are selected with the hashtag or pound (#) character.  

### Class Selector
Class attributes can also be selected in CSS. For example, if a class was written to be aligned to the center of the page, the selector will choose the "center" attribute using a period before "center" in the CSS sheet. The style rules will then be applied respectively.  

### Descendant Element Selector 
Nested elements in HTML are considered a "child" or "descendant" of the parent element. CSS offers selectors that will choose these descendant elements to apply the style of choice. More than one selector can be used at once if needed.  
Targetting several elements will group them in one declaration block to make it more efficient to apply the style to all of the selectors that are on the list.  

### Universal Selector
If the author decides to apply the same style rules to all of HTML elements on a document, they would use the universal selector. This would make every element, for example, have blue text in size 10 font.  






