---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 10: Multi-Factor Authentication"
date:   2021-12-02 18:16:57 -0700
---
# Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)
What is multi-factor authentication? It is a method of authentication that is becoming more wide-spread in the online world. This method requires users to verify their identity in more than one way. In addition to a username and password, users will need to enter a code sent to their phone or email, accept a push notification, or scan their fingerprint on their phone. These are just a few examples of MFA in use. After their identity is validated, they will gain access to the web application or resources they are trying to use. 

## What kinds of MFA are there?
Mult-factor authentication comes in different forms. The most common type of MFA is the use of a one-time password, or "OTP". This is found on many different websites such as Amazon and Google. Upon logging in, the user will be prompted to enter a code that was emailed or texted to their respective devices. If the code is correct, they will be authorized to use their account.  
At CSUN, we are required to use DUO Security to authenticate our accounts. The DUO application is installed on our smart devices so that every time we attempt to log into our CSUN accounts, we have to approve or deny the authentication request on our phones. A neat feature is that the app will tell you where the request is coming from (i.e., Northridge, CA). It ensures that you are aware of all of the incoming attempts to access your account.  
Other forms of MFA include: 
- Knowledge: something you know such as a numerical pin or password.
- Possession: something you own such as a smart device or access badge.
- Biometrics: something about you such as your fingerprint, voice, or facial features. 

## Why is Multi-Factor Authentication important?
MFA is important in this growing digital world because it adds another layer of security to your online accounts. It makes it much more difficult for intruders to gain access to your sensitive or confidential information such as bank details, academic material, or work files. It drastically reduces the chances of any malicious threats or attacks on your devices and information.  