---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 2: HTML Lists"
date:   2021-09-28 18:16:57 -0700
---
# HTML Lists  


Last week I was introduced to creating lists in HTML. Why are lists needed? They are a great way to organize a webpage's content. There are three various list types that we can use to format our information. They are used based on what kind of content is being displayed.   


## Unordered Lists
Unordered lists are as they sound. The items in this list are not ordered in any specific way. These are great to use when one thing is not prioritized over another. 
As always, a parent tag is needed to initiate the list element. This is used with a "<ul>" tag. Each list item is tagged with a "<li>" tag and ends with a closing tag. Once the list is complete, it should end with a closing </ul> tag.   


## Ordered Lists
Next, we have ordered lists which have a certain numerical progression. Each list item belongs to a specific position on the list. This list has identical syntax to an unordered list - the only things that change are the opening and closing tags. Instead of "ul" (unordered list), it will now be "ol" (ordered list). 
Ordered lists can be formatted to go in reverse or even start and stop at a identified position on the list. For example, the list can start at #8 and continue in reverse order until list item #1.   


## Description & Definition Lists
Description lists come in handy when there is a term and a definition on the list. The web reader will understand to display each element as a term that has a description or definition. These lists display differently than the ordered and unordered lists mentioned previously. 
These lists open with the tag, "<dl>" and end in "</dl>". The list items will be identified by either the "term" element (dt) or the "description" element (dd).   


