---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 8: JavaScript Loops"
date:   2021-11-09 18:16:57 -0700
---
# JavaScript Loops
Programming languages often require a quick and simple way to repeat a step multiple times throughout a program. Loops are used in JavaScript to command the computer to run a function or method numerous times without having to rewrite the action every time.  

Loops are defined with a start and end point that initiate and complete the action at a set amount of recurrences. The most common JavaScript loops are the for loop, the while loop, and the do-while loop, however, there are multiple types of loops that are used in JavaScript: 
1. For loop
2. While loop
3. Do-while loop
4. For-in loop
5. For-of loop

## For Statement
The for loop in JavaScript is similar to that of the Java and C languages. At the beginning of a for loop, the initial expression is run to create its variables and initialize a counter.  
The condtion expression runs next and repeatedly while resulting in an automatically defined "true" statement until it results in "false". The loop will no longer continue running after this point.  
The final expression runs after the end of every loop iteration and will either increment or decrement the counter. 

## While Statement
Statements using the while loop will continue to execute as long as the defined conditions are being met. Once the condition is no longer "true", the loop will finalize and move onto the next statement available.  
This loop requires monitoring as it will continue to iterate in the program as long as the condition is being met.  

## Do-While Statement
Similarly to the while loop, the do-while statement evaluates the condition at the end of the loop rather than the beginning. The loop will run the specified statement then check the condition to analyze if it is being met or not. If the condition results to "true", it will re-run the statement. Once it is equal to "false", the loop will end. 
