---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 0: Basics of HTML"
date:   2021-09-14 18:16:57 -0700
---

# HTML Basics

I am enrolled in COMP 484 this semester! We are currently learning the basics of HTML structure and syntax. This will review a few basic factors that go into learning and understanding HTML. 

## What is HTML? 

HTML is an acronym for "*Hyper Text Markup Language*". It is a markup language, similar to the one we are using in this class, used to create web pages. This language communicates with a web browser to display content to the user. 

## How do you use HTML? 

Just like any other language, HTML consists of rules to structure a web page. We will be going over a few structural components of HTML including  **elements**, **tags**, and **attributes**. 

### Elements
In HTML, elements use tags before and after written content to structure the document. Elements represent the meaning being enclosed in the tag. For example, the "title" element would be enclosed in opening and closing tags to determine the title of the text. The browser would then understand that this text should be displayed as a title and not a paragraph, for instance. 

### Tags
As mentioned before, tags are used to determine the start and closure of an element. While elements define the component, the tags are necessary to mark the beginning and end of the line of text. While these terms are commonly interchangeable, it is important to note the differences and appropriate uses. 

### Attributes
Attributes can be thought of as characteristics of an element. They are not necessary when writing in HTML, but they help give each element some distinguishable properties. Attributes are always enclosed in quotation marks within the tags. A couple examples of an attribute can be the size (height & width) of an image or the color or font of the text.
  
    
These are just a few basic components of writing HTML code. There are many more rules that apply to structuring a web page in the language. 
