
=======
---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 9: Single Sign-On"
date:   2021-11-16 18:16:57 -0700
---
# What is single sign-on? 
Single sign-on (SSO) is a user authentication technology that allows organizations to define one set of key-pairs per user that they can use to access multiple softwares and applications. As a part of the CSUN community, we should be familiar with our login system that allows us to use more than one service such as the myNorthridge Portal, Canvas, Google Suite, and more.  

## How does SSO work? 
SSO utilizes authentication tokens that verifies whether the user is valid or not. These authentication tokens function similarly to user IDs that need to be authorized for every use. Every time the user tries to log in to a service, the token will be checked or scanned. They will only be allowed entry into the service once their identity is confirmed.

## What are the benefits of SSO?
There are many benefits behind deploying single sign-on for organizations of different sizes. A few advantages include:
1. One password - Users will be required to generate a strong password with more than one requirement such as capital letters, numbers, and characters. This eliminates the need to have multiple passwords for different company-related resources. 
2. Stronger security - Since only one password is required, SSO users will also generally produce a strong single login rather than several weak passwords that are quick and easy to remember for different applications. This password will be harder to infiltrate because it is well-thought out and stands against attacks.
3. Streamlined experience - It is more time efficient to have access to all organizational websites with a single login. Time will not be wasted by logging in with a different username and password for the resources provided by the organization. This results in better workflow and productivity.

>>>>>>> 023f380a0942f1f15f24acf8367d7f5e4525bae9
