---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 0: Human-Computer Interaction"
date:   2022-02-08 18:16:57 -0700
---
## History of Human-Computer Interaction
This semester, I am enrolled in COMP 485 which goes into depth about the historical and current state of how humans and machines interact. The study of HCI was developed in the 1980s to embrace the connection and inginuity of the psychology and behavior of both computers and humans.  

Computers were originally created for individuals who were skilled and trained in operating them for specific purposes. They were not distributed to the general public at the time because there was no general use for them. Computing was only typically necessary for organizations and professionals until the 1970s when personal computing became more mainstream. Although they were not the machines we use today, they utilized software that assisted the average person in their day-to-day life. This development, however, raised concerns about the usability and intuitiveness of machines in response to user needs. HCI was introduced to improve and understand what needed to be changed in order for individuals to have a dynamic experience on computer interfaces. 

In order to streamline the user experience on a machine, HCI specialists had to analyze what cognitive mechanisms must be relayed from human to computer. Since each individual has different needs and subjective understandings of the world, HCI is still being studied and evolving on a daily basis. Developers must utilize their own human experience to relay what is needed in their own machines and applications. The study of human psychology and sociology plays a very large role in how we interact with computers and software. The machine alone would not be very user-friendly to the mass majority. HCI allows much more accessibility for those who have physical and mental impairments who would otherwise would not be able to use these technologies. Graphical interfaces must be modified to apply to either a specific audience and users or a worldwide demographic to gain the most out of their service. 

Wiithout HCI, many groups of people in the world would not be able to utilize the machines and software that are produced. Usability is one of the biggest reasons why the internet and technology have advanced in such great strides within the last few decades. So many different facets are involved within machine learning and development to ensure that these operations are usable and create a more efficient experience for each user. 