---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 2: Zero Trust Architecture"
date:   2022-02-26 18:16:57 -0700
---

## Zero Trust
Zero trust architure is a cybersecurity method that defends an organizational system by removing any guaranteed trust by verifying each phase of system activity. This type of security eliminates the vulnerability that comes with implicit trust in a digital sense. This is executed via authentication methods and several layers of threat protection. Zero Trust is also a more cost-effective model to avoid any damages that may incur in the future due to weakened security systems. 

Traditional cybersecurity methods give automatic access to resources and interaction that are already within the network and system. This type of model of security has major points of exposure for threats and attacks within the organization. It gives free reign to those already with granted access and freedom to operate without detection. These vulnerable points of access may result in higher losses in both cost and resources if an attack is carried out. 

The idea of "never trust, always verify" comes from proven occurences of malicious insiders. In today's hybrid environment, extra-strength security requires more user and network validation more than ever. Applications, users,and infrastructure must be secured in more than one way (i.e., just a username and password). All of the systems used to communicate with each other within the organization should have multi-step verification to ensure the highest level of security. 
