---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 1: Adaptive User Interfaces"
date:   2022-02-17 18:16:57 -0700
---

# What is an Adaptive User Interface? 
Human-computer interaction has many facets that can be studied and analyzed. Last week we discussed adaptive user interfaces, also known as AUIs, which are intelligent machine interfaces that adapt to the needs of the user. An algorithm is put into place to monitor the user's behavior and model the machine based on that data. This "smart" algorithm will identify patterns and interact accordingly. Because every individual has different needs, the interface behavior is subjective to each specific user. 

## Affective Computing
AUI integrates affective computing to create a more intuitive user design. Machines will mimic the way humans communicate with one another to effectively communicate with us. The affect mechanism in humans, (i.e., emotions, responses, stimulus) is applied to the computer so that it can make similar signals that we do. It also extends social rules and precedents to machine behavior as well! The computer is "trained" to recognize any of the user's state of emotions or thought processes at the time and pushes what it predicts the user will need such as products or services. There are even perception-based methods of affective computing that use the computer's audio and camera vision to identify facial expressions and vocal tone to model the environment for that user. 

## Persuasive Computing
With our smart devices at our fingertips most of the day, there is a certain level of trust that we have put into these machines. Persuasive computing convinves the user that it can trust the interface's design and algorithm. This type of computing gains the user's faith to persuade them to spend more time on a website or buy more items. It filters out what is irrelevent to the user and recommend to them the features that will more likely be of interest to them. The goal of persuasive computing is to ensure that the user is satisfied with what is being broadcasted to them by giving them a tailored, personalized experience. As the user continues to rely on the system, they will be more inclined to trust the suggestions that are given. 

## Pros & Cons of AUI
Of course AUI comes with plenty of advantages such as a stable, customized experience per user even on the same device. It caters to the needs of each individual and emulates a completely different experience. The ambient intelligence updates continuously based on the feedback of the user even though the software is the same for all user accounts.  
The disadvantages that come with AUI are that personal security is compromised due to the continuous stream of data being collected about each person. Without this, the system would not be able to tailor the design to make it a seamless experience. AUI may also trigger unwanted changes based on previous predictions even though humans are constantly changing and preferences differ over time. 