---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 7: Cloud Migration"
date:   2022-04-09
---

## Cloud Migration
Cloud computing services are becoming more and more necessary for organizations big and small. As we head into working in industry, we have to recognize the issues that come with operating in a cloud-based world rather than the traditional technology infrastructures and models. Migrating to a cloud has its difficulties that should be kept up with and monitored to ensure a smooth transition in the workplace.

# Migration Challenges
Some issues that present themselves during a cloud migration include budget and costs, expertise and skills, business models, and security. There must be a clear strategy in place to gain all of the benefits of the switch while making sure that it is secure and stable. A lot of the issues lie in human error and the lack of knowledge to successfully implement the strategy. Without a leader or team that understands the foundation of cloud computing, there will be a lot of difficulties that erupt during the process. This requires plenty of preparation and planning before the migration even takes place. Luckily, there are more than enough resources and documentation to assist in the implementation. The IT team should identify the correct parameters in order to avoid any vulnerabilities in the security configuration and establish monitoring systems that run continously. With successful migration, many organizational processes will become much more innovative, efficient, and streamlined. 

